Notes on Winit upgrade (#953)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/news/2024-02-03-bevy-0.13/index.md

## Winit Upgrade

<div class="release-feature-authors">authors: @Thierry Berger, @mockersf</div>

Through the heroic efforts of our contributors and reviewers, Bevy is [now upgraded] to use `winit 0.29`.
[`winit`] is our windowing library: it abstracts over all of the different operating systems and input devices that end users might have,

> and provides a basically uniform API to enable a write-once, run-anywhere experience.

Reviewer: This presently reads weird to me. These are the two solutions I've come up with to maybe make it read better. Non blocking.

```suggestion
and provides a basically uniform API to enable a write-once, run-anywhere, experience.
```
or

```suggestion
and provides a basically uniform API to enable a write-once and run-anywhere experience.
```

While this brings with it the usual litany of valuable [bug fixes and stability improvements],
the critical change revolves around how [`KeyCode`] is handled.

Previously, [`KeyCode`] represented the logical meaning of a key on a keyboard:
pressing the same button on the same keyboard when swapping between QWERTY and AZERTY keyboard layouts would give a different result!

> Now: you it represents the physical location of the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It now instead represents the physical location of the key.
```

Author: ```suggestion
In Bevy 0.13, the same type represents the physical location of the key.
```

> Now: you it represents the physical location of the key.

Reviewer 2: I would repeat 'KeyCode' here, as this is the main takeaway of the change:
```suggestion
[`Keycode`] now instead represents the physical location of the key.
```

> Lovers of WASD games know that this is a much better default for games: for most Bevy developers, you can leave your existing code untouched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lovers of WASD games know that this is a much better default for games. For most Bevy developers, you can leave your existing code untouched
```

> and simply benefit from better default keybindings for users on non-QWERTY keyboards or layouts.
> 
> [now upgraded]: https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/10702
> [`winit`]: https://docs.rs/winit/latest/winit/
> [bug fixes and stability improvements]: https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0292
> [`KeyCode`]: https://docs.rs/bevy/latest/bevy/input/keyboard/enum.KeyCode.html

Reviewer 2: Should we give a pointer for the other developpers ? 
```suggestion
and simply benefit from better default keybindings for users on non-QWERTY keyboards or layouts, otherwise you should look into the [`ReceivedCharacter`] event.

[now upgraded]: https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/10702
[`winit`]: https://docs.rs/winit/latest/winit/
[bug fixes and stability improvements]: https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0292
[`KeyCode`]: https://docs.rs/bevy/latest/bevy/input/keyboard/enum.KeyCode.html
[`ReceivedCharacter`]: https://docs.rs/bevy/latest/bevy/prelude/struct.ReceivedCharacter.html
```

Author: ```suggestion
and simply benefit from better default keybindings for users on non-QWERTY keyboards or layouts.
If you need information about the logical keys pressed, use the [`ReceivedCharacter`] event.

[now upgraded]: https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/10702
[`winit`]: https://docs.rs/winit/latest/winit/
[bug fixes and stability improvements]: https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0292
[`KeyCode`]: https://docs.rs/bevy/latest/bevy/input/keyboard/enum.KeyCode.html
[`ReceivedCharacter`]: https://docs.rs/bevy/latest/bevy/prelude/struct.ReceivedCharacter.html
```
